Overview
	Spring framework is an open source Java platform that provides comprehensive infrastructure support for developing robust Java applications very easily and very rapidly.
	Spring Framework to create high performing, easily testable, and reusable code.
	
Dependency Injection (DI)
	When writing a complex Java application, application classes should be as independent as possible of other Java classes
		to increase the possibility to reuse these classes
		to test them independently of other classes while unit testing. 
	Dependency Injection helps in gluing these classes together and at the same time keeping them independent.
	Dependency injection can happen in the way of passing parameters to the constructor or by post-construction using setter methods.
	
Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP)
	The functions that span multiple points of an application are called cross-cutting concerns.
	These cross-cutting concerns are conceptually separate from the application's business logic. Examples:  logging, declarative transactions, security, caching.
	The key unit of modularity in OOP is the class, whereas in AOP the unit of modularity is the aspect.
	DI helps you decouple your application objects from each other, while AOP helps you decouple cross-cutting concerns from the objects that they affect.
	
The Spring Framework
	The Spring Framework is a modular framework with 20 modules
	Core Container
		Core module provides the fundamental parts of the framework, including the IoC and Dependency Injection features.
		Bean module provides BeanFactory, which is a sophisticated implementation of the factory pattern.
		Context module builds on the solid base provided by the Core and Beans modules and it is a medium to access any objects defined and configured. 
			The ApplicationContext interface is the focal point of the Context module.
		SpEL module provides a powerful expression language for querying and manipulating an object graph at runtime.
	Data Access/Integration Container
		JDBC module provides a JDBC-abstraction layer that removes the need for tedious JDBC related coding.
		ORM module provides integration layers for popular object-relational mapping APIs, including JPA, JDO, Hibernate, and iBatis.
		OXM module provides an abstraction layer that supports Object/XML mapping implementations for JAXB, Castor, XMLBeans, JiBX and XStream.
		Java Messaging Service JMS module contains features for producing and consuming messages.
		Transaction module supports programmatic and declarative transaction management for classes that implement special interfaces and for all your POJOs.
	Web Container
		Web module provides basic web-oriented integration features such as 
			multipart file-upload functionality 
			initialization of the IoC (inversion of Control) container using servlet listeners and a web-oriented application context.
		Web-MVC module contains Spring's Model-View-Controller (MVC) implementation for web applications.
		Web-Socket module provides support for WebSocket-based, two-way communication between the client and the server in web applications.
		Web-Portlet module provides the MVC implementation to be used in a portlet environment and mirrors the functionality of Web-Servlet module.
	Miscellaneous
		AOP module provides an aspect-oriented programming implementation 
			allowing you to define method-interceptors and pointcuts to cleanly decouple code that implements functionality that should be separated.
		Aspects module provides integration with AspectJ, which is again a powerful and mature AOP framework.
		Instrumentation module provides class instrumentation support and class loader implementations to be used in certain application servers.
		Messaging module provides support for STOMP as the WebSocket sub-protocol to use in applications.
			It also supports an annotation programming model for routing and processing STOMP messages from WebSocket clients.
		Test module supports the testing of Spring components with JUnit or TestNG frameworks.
		
Spring Bean
	The objects that form the backbone of your application and that are managed by the Spring IoC container are called beans. 
	A bean is an object that is instantiated, assembled, and otherwise managed by a Spring IoC container. 
	These beans are created with the configuration metadata that you supply to the container.
	Configuration Metadata
		Bean definition contains the information called configuration metadata, which is needed for the container to know the following −
			How to create a bean
			Bean's lifecycle details
			Bean's dependencies
		Spring IoC container is totally decoupled from the format in which this configuration metadata is actually written. 
		Theare are three important methods to provide configuration metadata to the Spring Container:
			XML based configuration file.
			Annotation-based configuration
			Java-based configuration
	Bean Defintion 
		Mandatory Attributes
			class
				This attribute is mandatory and specifies the bean class to be used to create the bean.
			name
				This attribute specifies the bean identifier uniquely. In XMLbased configuration metadata, you use the id and/or name attributes to specify the bean identifier(s).
		Other Attributes
			scope - This attribute specifies the scope of the objects created from a particular bean definition and it will be discussed in bean scopes chapter.
			constructor-arg 
			properties - This is used to inject the dependencies and will be discussed in subsequent chapters.
			lazy-initialization mode - A lazy-initialized bean tells the IoC container to create a bean instance when it is first requested, rather than at the startup.
			initialization method - A callback to be called just after all necessary properties on the bean have been set by the container. 
			destruction method - A callback to be used when the container containing the bean is destroyed. It will be discussed in bean life cycle chapter.
		Example
			!-- A bean definition with lazy init set on -->
		   <bean id = "..." class = "..." lazy-init = "true">
			  <!-- collaborators and configuration for this bean go here -->
		   </bean>
	Scope of Bean
		singleton  - This scopes the bean definition to a single instance per Spring IoC container (default).
			Spring IoC container creates exactly one instance of the object defined by that bean definition. 
			This single instance is stored in a cache of such singleton beans, and all subsequent requests and references for that named bean return the cached object.
			The default scope is always singleton.
			Creating a singleton bean
				<!-- A bean definition with singleton scope -->
				<bean id = "..." class = "..." scope = "singleton">
					<!-- collaborators and configuration for this bean go here -->
				</bean>
		prototype - This scopes a single bean definition to have any number of object instances.
		request - This scopes a bean definition to an HTTP request. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.
		session - This scopes a bean definition to an HTTP session. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.
		global-session - This scopes a bean definition to a global HTTP session. Only valid in the context of a web-aware Spring ApplicationContext.
		

	
		
Setting up environment
	Environment setup based on:
	https://www.tutorialspoint.com/spring/spring_environment_setup.htm
		1. CommonLogging API setup
			Download binaries from https://commons.apache.org/logging/
			Extract to a folder in Filesystem
			Make sure you set your CLASSPATH
		2. Setup Spring Framework
			Download Spring for Windows from https://repo.spring.io/release/org/springframework/spring/
			Unpack file something like: spring-framework-4.1.6.RELEASE-dist.zip to a location in Filesystem.
	
Create an Eclipse Project using Spring
	1. Create new Java project
	2. Add CommonLogging API and Spring Framework libraries to the project
		Project Properties - Java Build Path - Libraries - Add external JAR - add all .jar files from spring & common logging folder
	
Tutorials
	TutorialsPoint's Spring tutorial - in progress
		https://www.tutorialspoint.com/spring/index.htm
	MVC Hello world using Maven and Eclipse - not yet completed
		http://www.programcreek.com/2014/02/spring-mvc-helloworld-using-maven-in-eclipse/
	
Online Sources
	http://www.dineshonjava.com/2012/06/spring-30-baby-step-to-learn.html?m=1#.WSRNikYZGH4.google_plusone_share

	
Books
	Spring in Action, 4th Edition: Covers Spring 4 by Craig Walls
		https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/spring-in-action/9781617291203/